In this section, we are going to look at Linux users as well as passwords.
They are two types of users in the mix that concern us, the root user and then all other users.
Let's look at the root user.
Firstly, the root user is the all powerful administrative or super user on the limbic system.
The root user has tremendous power, so utmost care must always be taken if you are working as the root
user.
It is extremely foolhardy to work on a server as the root user, as one carelessly typed command can
erase important configuration files.
Amongst the responsibilities of the user includes installing various packages, making changes to configuration
files, updating the server.
A non route user can be a user like us, or it could be a system process.
For example, Engine X runs as a user on your server and that user is a non route user.
All other users are non route users.
When you can't figure a server, we are going to be installing various software packages that we need
to display our sites.
You don't do this working as the route user.
What we do is we take a non route user.
In this case, it will be us, the user, that we will create for ourselves and we give that user route
privileges by privileges.
I'm referring to having the rights to perform a task on your server.
When you log into your server, you are logged in as a normal non route user with the privileges of
a non route user.
A non route user cannot install packages or update the server.
You can only accomplish tasks that you have the privileges for.
You take a non router user and you give that user route privileges to allow a non route user route privileges.
That user must be added to the route group of users.
I'll be covering the concept of groups shortly by adding a non route user to the route group.
That non route user can invoke the power of the route user at any time to accomplish that.
The non route user who has been given route privileges types sudo super user to prior to tapping the
command.
I must mention the following when talking about passwords as a security precaution, you will not see
any characters appear on the screen as you type a password.
At this stage, I would like you to please make note of two commands that we will be using.
The first command is V.I..
Sudi V Suja allows us to add a non route user to the route group.
The user we have then added to the REDgroup can invoke route privileges at any time using the command
sudo.
Please make note of these two commands suda you will use continuously throughout the course vasudha
you will use once when we initially login to our server.
For now, just make a note of the commands.
I will cover their usage as we progress through the course.
In this lecture I briefly covered the difference between a route user and a non user.